# awwawebsite
AWWA(Accepting Who We Are)
An important implication of this definition is that mental health is more than just the absence of mental disorders or disabilities.
Mental health is a state of well-being in which an individual realizes his or her own abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and is able to make a contribution to his or her community.
Mental health is fundamental to our collective and individual ability as humans to think, emote, interact with each other, earn a living and enjoy life. On this basis, the promotion, protection and restoration of mental health can be regarded as a vital concern of individuals, communities and societies throughout the world.
The National Mental Health Programme and Health and Wellness Centres are efforts to provide quality care at the primary health care level. Deaddiction centres and rehabilitation services are also available. Determinants of mental health include individual attributes such as the ability to manage one's thoughts, emotions, behaviours and interactions with others. In addition, social, cultural, economic, political and environmental factors have a role to play as do specific psychological and personality, and genetic factors. Raising awareness and mobilizing efforts in support of mental health is necessary for addressing the situation.
Mental health promotion involves creating an environment, which promotes healthy living and encourages people to adopt healthy lifestyle. Enabling environment through national mental health policies and legal frameworks are imperative for effective management of mental health disorders and providing overarching directions for ensuring mental health promotion. This calls for a multisectoral engagement and a life-course approach.
Treatment of mental health disorders is of utmost importance. It calls for comprehensive strategies for promotion, prevention, treatment and recovery through a whole-of-government approach. Policy makers should be encouraged to promote availability of and access to cost-effective treatment of common mental disorders at the primary health care level.
